#### 1. From the movie_budget table, return the first five rows where the title doesn't contain the character a only in lowercase.

```
SELECT *
FROM movie_budget
WHERE title NOT LIKE '%a%'
LIMIT 5;
```

### 2. To calculate the average price for each category from the fruit_2022 table, ensure that the calculation only includes the prices using kg as the unit.
SELECT category, 
       AVG(price) AS avg_price
FROM fruit_2022
WHERE unit = 'kg'
GROUP BY category;

### 3. From the movie_budget table, return the year with more than 3 movies in the table.
SELECT year, COUNT(*) AS n_of_movies
FROM movie_budget
GROUP BY year
HAVING COUNT(*) > 3;

4. From the bike_stations table, convert the Station_ID column to INTEGER data type.
SELECT station_id,
SELECT Station_ID :: INT,
       Latitude,
       Longitude
FROM bike_stations;

5. From the speaker table, return the number of speakers per year in descending order.
SELECT  EXTRACT(year FROM launch) AS year,
        COUNT(*) AS number_of_speakers
FROM speaker
GROUP BY year
ORDER BY number_of_speakers DESC;

6. Based only on the preview shown, which column has missing values in the speaker table?
-- speaker
|   model                             | price |  launch     |  overall  |
|-------------------------------------|-------|-------------|-----------|
|   Bowers & Wilkins Formation Wedge  |  899  |  2019-06-01 |   160     |
|   Harman Kardon Citation 200        |  349  |  ''         |   147     |
|   Sonos Five                        |       |  2021-06-01 |    0 
Answer: Price column

7. In the vendors table, some entries in the zip_code have 9 digits. Return a zip_code column that only contains the first 5 digits from the zip_code column.
SELECT vendor_name, 
      LEFT(zip_code,5) AS zip_code
FROM vendors;

8. From the fruit_2022 table, you want to know which item in the vegetable category has an average price higher than 2.
SELECT item,
       AVG(price) AS avg_price
FROM fruit_2022
WHERE category = 'vegetable'
GROUP BY item
HAVING AVG(price) > 2;

9. Add the rows from the movie_2010 table to movie_2000 but keep the duplicates.
SELECT *
FROM movie_2000
UNION ALL 
SELECT *
FROM movie_2010
ORDER BY year;

10. Add the rows from the movie_2010 table to movie_2000 but remove the duplicates.
SELECT *
FROM movie_2000
UNION 
SELECT *
FROM movie_2010
ORDER BY year;

11. For the vendors table, return the number of the rows without missing values in the vendor_state column. 
SELECT COUNT(*) 
FROM vendors
WHERE  vendor_state IS NOT NULL ;


12.
SELECT item, 
    CASE WHEN energy > 300 THEN 'high'
    WHEN energy > 150 THEN 'medium'
    ELSE 'low' END AS calorie_rating
FROM food
ORDER BY item;

13. The wine_region table gives a list of all wines offered by a restaurant. The pairing table lists the recommended food items for those wines. Return the style and price for all wines that have a pairing.
SELECT style, price
FROM wine_region
WHERE id IN(
	SELECT wine_id
	FROM pairing
)
ORDER BY price, style
LIMIT 5

14. Extract the last two characters from the string sports.
SELECT RIGHT('sports', 2) AS sports_extract;

15. 
Statement:
Count the number of times each artist_id appears in the tracks table.
--tracks
| id     | name                | artist_id | release_date |
|--------|---------------------|-----------|--------------|
| 3qyX4g | Soon We'll Be Found | 5WUlDf    | 2004-10-03   |
| 04sN26 | Bored               | 6qqNVT    | 2017-03-30   |
| 4cCXPF | On Top Of The World | 53Xhwf    | 2021-04-09   |

Solution:
SELECT artist_id, COUNT(*) AS artist_count
FROM tracks
GROUP BY artist_id
ORDER BY artist_count DESC, artist_id
LIMIT 5;

Expected Output
artist_id	artist_count
3meJIg	137
1dfeR4	33
3WrFJ7	19
4VMYDC	19
3Nrfpe	16


16. The wine table gives information about wines stocked in an online wine retailer. Calculate the average rating of wines by type, return the data ordered by the average rating, from lowest to highest.
SELECT type, ROUND(AVG(rating), 2)
FROM wine
GROUP BY type
ORDER BY AVG(rating)

17. The wine table gives information about wines from an online retailer. Use a common table expression to determine the highest count of bottles amongst all types.
WITH type_count AS (
	SELECT type, count(id) AS bottle_count
	FROM wine
	GROUP BY type
)
SELECT max(bottle_count) 
FROM type_count

18. Determine the average number of employees per manager using the employees table.
SELECT AVG(count_employees)
FROM (SELECT manager_id,
            Count(employee_id) AS count_employees
           FROM employees
           GROUP BY manager_id) AS employee_summary

19. Combine the words 'TV' and 'show' without spaces.
SELECT ('TV', 'show') AS new_word;


20.
Statement:
Determine the total number of dance hits per artist (by artist_id). A song is considered a dance hit when dance_level > 75.

Solution:
SELECT T.artist_id, COUNT(*) AS dance_hits
FROM tracks AS T
INNER JOIN features AS F
    ON T.id = F.song_id
WHERE F.dance_level > 75
GROUP BY T.artist_id
ORDER BY dance_hits DESC, artist_id
LIMIT 10;

Expected Output
artist_id	dance_hits
4q3ewB	3
1URnnh	2
1mcTU8	2
1r4hJ1	2
3Nrfpe	2
3TVXtA	2
3nFkdl	2
4VMYDC	2
06HL4z	1
0eDvMg	1


21.
Statement:
The wine table, whose structure is shown below, contains information about a selection of wines offered by a restaurant. Calculate the minimum price for each type of wine and return the created field as min_price.

Solution:
SELECT type, MIN(price) as min_price
FROM wine 
GROUP BY type
ORDER BY type

Expected Output
type	min_price
red	14.9
sparkling	
white	13.56


22.
Statement:
Return the rows from the artists table where there are missing values for the nationality column.

Solution:
SELECT *
FROM artists
WHERE nationality IS NULL
ORDER BY artist_id
LIMIT 10;

Expected Output:
artist_id	name	nationality	birth_date
4	Zainab Johnson		
5	Sammy Obeid		
6	Alie Ward		
10	Amir Wilson		
11	Ruby Ashbourne Serkis		
12	Thaddea Graham		
14	Elia Rumpt


23.
Statement:
Return the id and style columns from the table wine where there are no missing values for the column price.

Solution:
SELECT id, style
FROM wine
WHERE price IS NOT NULL
ORDER BY id;

Expected Output
id	style
21	gavi
31	alvarinho
48	cabernet
65	malbec
68	primitivo
69	riesling
76	valpolicella


24.
Statement:
Which artists have popularity values of 98?

Solution:
SELECT COUNT(*)
FROM artists
WHERE popularity = 98

Expected Output
count
3


25.
Statement:
Return the values from all columns in the table artists where nationality is equal to 'Mexican'.

Solution:
SELECT *
FROM artists
WHERE nationality = 'Mexican';

Expected Output
artist_id	name	nationality	birth_date
19	Cecilia Suárez	Mexican	1971-11-22
21	Verónica Castro


26.
Statement:
Return the average of the popularity column in the tracks table.

Solution:
SELECT ROUND(AVG(popularity) , 0) AS avg_popularity
FROM tracks;

Expected Output
avg_popularity
46


27.
Statement:
You are analyzing nutritional information on food items on the menu of a restaurant. They want to know the average number of calories per 100g in items on their menu. Calories per 100g is contained in the energy column. You have calculated the average but you want to update your code to make it clear what the value shows, returning the column name as avg_calories.

Solution:
SELECT AVG(energy) AS avg_calories
FROM food

Expected Output:
avg_calories
187.8333333333333333


28.
Statement:
You have joined two tables, wine_region and pairing, to find wines that match food items. You now want to clean up your code so that you don't need to repeat the table names throughout. Shorten the table names to w and p.

Solution:
SELECT w.style, p.item
FROM wine_region AS w
LEFT JOIN pairing AS p
	ON w.id = p.wine_id
ORDER BY style

Expected Output:
style	item
alvarinho	oysters
blanc de blanc	caviar
cabernet	lamb
gavi	
malbec	steak
pinot noir	salmon
primitivo	curry
riesling	roast duck
valpolicella	grilled vegetables


29.
Statement:
Return the first_name of all employees in the employee table.

--employees
| employee_id | first_name | last_name |
|-------------|------------|-----------|
| 4430        | Betty      | Summers   |
| 6561        | Mary       | Hogan     |
| 8795        | Pearl      | Valdez    |
| 8808        | Molly      | Kramer    |
| 1036        | Hafza      | Hess      |

Solution
SELECT first_name
FROM employees
ORDER BY first_name
LIMIT 5;

Expected Output
first_name
Betty
Darren
Hafza
Hugo
Jack


30.
Statement
The food table gives nutritional information about various items served in a restaurant. Return the item, energy and protein columns ordered by protein so that high protein foods appear first.

Solution:
SELECT item, energy, protein
FROM food
ORDER BY protein DESC

Expected Output
item	energy	protein
lasagne	188	11.76
tacos	180	10.94
croissant	343	5.71
chicken salad	110	5
waffles	200	4.29
thai curry	106	 3.18


31.
Statement:
The wine table, whose structure is shown below, contains information about a selection of wines offered by a restaurant. How much would it cost to buy a single bottle of all of the wines on offer? The cost of a single bottle is given in the price column and there are no duplicates in the data.

Solution:
SELECT SUM(price)
FROM wine

Expected Output:
sum
120.82


32.
Statement:
Sort artists by the number of followers from the biggest to smallest using the artists table.

--artists
| id     | followers | name          | popularity |
|--------|-----------|---------------|------------|
| 1uNFoZ | 44606973  | Justin Bieber | 100        |
| 06HL4z | 38869193  | Taylor Swift  | 98         |
| 3TVXtA | 54416812  | Drake         | 98         |

Solution:
SELECT name, followers
FROM artists 
ORDER BY followers DESC 
LIMIT 10;

Expected Output:
name	followers
Ed Sheeran	78900234
Ariana Grande	61301006
Drake	54416812
Justin Bieber	44606973
Eminem	43747833
Rihanna	42244011
Billie Eilish	41792604
Taylor Swift	38869193
Imagine Dragons	33665795
Queen	33483326


33.
Statement:
The favorite shows of a small group of subscribers is recorded in the favorite table. The titles of the shows were not entered consistently. Convert all the values in the title column to lower case.

Solution
SELECT user_id,
       lower(title) AS title_lower
FROM favorite
ORDER BY user_id, title_lower
LIMIT 5;

Expected Output
user_id	title_lower
23	elite
23	money heist
43	stranger things
45	you
87	you







20. Due to a database error, the column followers of the artists was incorrectly increased by 1000. Correct the mistake by subtracting 1000 from the followers column.

21. For each vendor_name in the vendors table, ensure that only the first letter of each word is upper case e.g. DATACAMP would become Datacamp.

